# dark-maze
Problem Definition: My intention with this honors contract was to create an original maze game. The game would consist of a player trying to navigate a dark maze with various contents, including lives, energy boosts, hazards, and a goal. I needed to make an intuitive GUI for the game that would allow the person playing the game to see what was going on in the game in real time as well as allow for easy control of the game player. I needed to animate the player’s movements in order to ensure a smooth and visually pleasing gameplay experience. All of the game contents would be displayed in a custom JFrame.

Algorithm: I needed an effective way to organize each of the components of the maze. Therefore, I divided my classes into several categories, as indicated by the packages in which I placed each file: driver classes, frames, panels, items, levels, and traversers. The driver classes category consisted of the DarkMaze.java, the driver class. The frames category consisted of GameFrame.java, the JFrame in which I would display the game. The GameFrame utilized the various panels in the panels category, which consisted of a game panel would display the maze as well as other message panels that would display a message on the entire frame depending on the circumstances. The items category consisted of the various items in the game, explained in the screenshots below. The levels category consisted of Maze.java, which is the class responsible for the actual contents of the maze. The Traversers category describes anything that can traverse the maze, which includes instances of Player.java, which is the class that defines the characteristics of a player in the game.
	The player starts with 3 lives and 5 energy points. Each time players touch a hazard, they lose a life. If the player loses all of his or her lives, all of the current panels are removed from the frame, and a “GAME OVER” message is displayed on the screen using a GameOverPanel. Energy points are essential for operating the light. The maze is initially dark, and the light is was makes the contents of the maze visible. Using the light uses up energy points at a rate of 1 energy point per second; I implemented this timing mechanism using a Swing Timer with a delay of 1000 milliseconds. If the player’s energy falls to zero, the light will turn off and will no longer be functional. The player can toggle the light on and off in order to conserve energy.
	The player can navigate the maze with the arrow buttons located at the bottom right-hand corner of the frame. The player can move up, down, left, or right. Whenever an arrow button is pressed, the pressed-button generates an event, and the ControlListener executes the corresponding method that starts a timer used to animate the motion of the player in the corresponding direction. The light toggle button also utilizes the ControlListener class in order to execute the corresponding method that starts the energy point timer. All of the buttons are grouped together in a ControlPanel.
	The Maze.java class consists of a private class called Square, which defines a Square in the maze. I defined the maze for this game to be a 4 by 4 two-dimensional array of Squares. A Square can hold a Traverser and an Item. Whenever the player steps on a square, the interactWith(Player p) method of the Item class is executed, which affects the player in some way. For example, if the item is a hazard, the interactWith() method subtracts a life from the player’s total life count. If the item is an energy boost, the interactWith() method boosts the player’s energy by one point. If the item is a life, the interactWith() methods adds a life from the player’s total life count. If the item is the goal, the interactWith() method sets the hasWon variable of player to true.
	The maze is instantiated using String blueprints that describe the initial position of items and traversers in the maze. The elements are painted using paint() methods that I have described for each object. The paintComponent() method of the GamePanel class calls the paint() method of the Maze class, which calls the paint() method of the Square class, which calls the paint() methods of the Item and Traverser classes.
	When the player reaches the goal, all of the current panels are removed from the Frame, and a VictoryPanel is added to the frame. The Victory Panel displays a “YOU WIN” message.
